---
layout: post
title:  "No Developer is an Island"
date:   2015-01-30 18:03:34
categories: technology, life, makersquare, career
---
This week marked the end of new material as we began work on our final group project. We are simulating a professional development environment by breaking into small teams each focusing on a feature or set of related features. This is exciting because working in large teams is how we all know that software gets created professionally, and this would give us some first-hand experience on how that operates, and how it differs from all of us operating independently on our own projects. Even though my long-term goal is to end up in a Product Management role, this is incredibly valuable in showing me what it's like to be on an engineering team.

While I said that starting this large project was the end of new material, that is not exactly the case. While we all have been using Git and GitHub as part of our independent project workflow, that's not really how those tools were designed to be used. They were designed for collaboration. As such, we are now seeing their true power and value. Things like branching, rebasing, pull-requests, code reviews, sticking to a consistent code style, and merging code are things we now deal with several times per day.

Above all aformentioned technical parts of working in a team environment, the single biggest thing we've had to learn to use well is communication, and soft-skills overall. We have spent the last 2+ months putting about 100 hours per week into building our coding chops, but nothing gets done as a team without the ability to communicate effectively, and be able to give/take criticism in a productive manner.

The biggest takeaway for me personllay, however, is that while my goal is to ultimately be a great Product Manager, building software like we are as a team is really fun. It's validating to feel that the large risk we've all taken in our lives by dropping everything to do this has turned out to be something that we all enjoy as much as we had hoped we would. It's also given me a strong empathy for what it means to be part of a professional development team. Knowing what engineers deal with on a day-to-day basis is integral to helping guide the process of taking something from an idea, to MVP, and finally to a consumer-facing product. I now understand why so many Product Managers come from a technical background, and that I should be open to development and engineering roles while working towards my long-term goal of being a Product Manager.